Top 20 Things That Google Looks for In Candidates 
1. Cognitive ability manifested by a capacity to learn

2. Intense curiosity

3. Innovativeness

4. Ability to adapt to change

5. Algorithmic thinking

6. Facility with writing computer code

7. Divergent thinking

8. Statistical analysis skills

9. Ability to mine big data

10. Humility and ability to give credit to others

11. Analytical skills to solve problems

12. Individuals with diverse backgrounds

13. Management style characterized by empowering others

14. Action oriented

15. Demonstrated ability to take on challenges and persist to overcome obstacles

16. Evidence of active leadership with a balance between passionately influencing others and accepting superior ideas of others

17. Candidates who attack problems head-on

18. Evidence of taking ownership and being accountable for projects

19. Collaborative teamwork

20. Comfort with ambiguity

Syllabus - 

probability theory 
combinatorics
data structures - stack,q,tree,graph,trie
algorithms - dijkstra, a*, knapsack
math
unit testing the code
system design - 5+ years
recursion
OS - process, thread, concurrency, resource allocation, context switching
underlying hardware
scheduling
interfaces, class hierarchies, distributed systems
networking - load balancer, firewall, routers, DNS
write readable, simple and bug free code

6 things to do while solving -
1. Repeat the question in your own words
2. Check assumptions
3. Use real examples
4. Brainstorm solutions and their time/space complexity
5. Write working code (no pseudo-code please!)
6. Test your code, always

Interview Feedback -
Analytical Ability, Coding, Experience, and Communication


I mostly focused on solving Leetcode questions. I practiced the following data structures:

Stacks and Queues
Heaps (Don’t ignore this data structure)
Hashmaps (Very important data structure)
Binary Tree, Binary Search Tree
Linked List
Double ended queue
Tries (Prefix-tree)
Segment Tree
Graph
Disjoint sets
I practiced the following algorithms:

Depth First Search
Breadth First Search
Recursive and iterative pre-order traversal
Recursive and iterative post-order traversal
Recursive and iterative in-order traversal
binary search algorithm on binary search trees and sorted arrays
Dijkstra and A-star
Merge sort and Quick sort
Dynamic Programming, Greedy Algorithms, Recursion

whiteboard thursday series













